---
title: Generating javascript code
menu: Javascript code
template: jaxon
---

Once the PHP functions and objects are exported, the next step is to generate the code to insert into HTML pages.
Jaxon provides 3 different functions to generate the code to send to the browser.

- The function `$jaxon->getCss()` returns the CSS code to insert into the page. This will often be instructions to load CSS files of Jaxon plugins.
- The function `$jaxon->getJs()` returns the code to load external javascript files.
- The function `$jaxon->getScript()` returns the javascript code corresponding to exported functions and classes, and the configuration of the library.

The separation into three distinct functions makes it possible to insert the codes generated by the Jaxon library in different parts of the HTML page.  
The call to `$jaxon->getScript(true, true)` returns the cumulative output of the 3 previous calls.

#### Javascript calls

When a PHP function is exported with Jaxon, the javascript function name is the name of the PHP function prepended with the value of the `core.prefix.function` configuration option. The default value of this option is `jaxon_`.

```php
$jaxon->register(Jaxon::USER_FUNCTION, 'helloWorld');
```
```javascript
<button onclick="jaxon_helloWorld(0)">Click Me</button>
```

When a PHP class is exported with Jaxon, the javascript class name is the name of the PHP class prepended with the value of the `core.prefix.class` configuration option. The default value of this option is `Jaxon`.

```php
$jaxon->register(Jaxon::CALLABLE_OBJECT, new HelloWorld());
```
```javascript
<button onclick="JaxonHelloWorld.sayHello(0)">Click Me</button>
```

#### The parameters of javascript calls

The Jaxon javascript library provides functions to get values from the webpage content and use them as parameter of Ajax calls.

The `jaxon.getFormValues(id)` function reads the content of the HTML form with a given id.

In this example the content of a HTML form is passed as parameter to the function.
```php
<button onclick="JaxonHelloWorld.sayHello(jaxon.getFormValues('DemoForm'))">Click Me</button>
````

The `jaxon.$(id)` function reads the content of the HTML element with a given id.

In this example the value of a text field is passed as parameter to the function.
```php
<button onclick="JaxonHelloWorld.sayHello(jaxon.$('DemoData').value)">Click Me</button>
````

In this example the value of a checkbox is passed as parameter to the function.
```php
<button onclick="JaxonHelloWorld.sayHello(jaxon.$('DemoData').checked)">Click Me</button>
````

In this example the content of a HTML element is passed as parameter to the function.
```php
<button onclick="JaxonHelloWorld.sayHello(jaxon.$('DemoDiv').innerHTML)">Click Me</button>
````

The [Request Factory](/docs/requests/factory) provides functions to generate the above javascript calls from PHP.
```php
use Jaxon\Request\Factory as jr;

<button onclick="<?php echo jr::call('HelloWorld.sayHello', jr::html('DemoDiv')) ?>">Click Me</button>
````
