---
title: Calling javascript code
menu: Javascript calls
template: jaxon
---

When a PHP function is registered with Jaxon, the javascript function name is the name of the PHP function prepended with the value of the `core.prefix.function` configuration option. The default value of this option is `jaxon_`.

```php
$jaxon->register(Jaxon::CALLABLE_FUNCTION, 'helloWorld');
```
```javascript
<button onclick="jaxon_helloWorld(0)">Click Me</button>
```

When a PHP class is registered with Jaxon, the javascript class name is the name of the PHP class prepended with the value of the `core.prefix.class` configuration option. The default value of this option is `Jaxon`.

```php
$jaxon->register(Jaxon::CALLABLE_CLASS, HelloWorld::class);
```
```javascript
<button onclick="JaxonHelloWorld.sayHello(0)">Click Me</button>
```

#### The parameters of javascript calls

Parameters of various types can be passed to the javascript functions generated by Jaxon: integer, boolean, string, array or object.
They are automatically passed to the corresponding PHP classes.

The `jaxon.getFormValues(id)` function reads the content of the HTML form with a given id.

In this example the content of a HTML form is passed as parameter to the function.
```php
<button onclick="JaxonHelloWorld.sayHello(jaxon.getFormValues('DemoForm'))">Click Me</button>
```

The `jaxon.$(id)` function reads the content of the HTML element with a given id.

In this example the value of a text field is passed as parameter to the function.
```php
<button onclick="JaxonHelloWorld.sayHello(jaxon.$('DemoData').value)">Click Me</button>
```

In this example the value of a checkbox is passed as parameter to the function.
```php
<button onclick="JaxonHelloWorld.sayHello(jaxon.$('DemoData').checked)">Click Me</button>
```

In this example the content of a HTML element is passed as parameter to the function.
```php
<button onclick="JaxonHelloWorld.sayHello(jaxon.$('DemoDiv').innerHTML)">Click Me</button>
```

The [Request Factory](../requests/factory) provides functions to generate the above javascript calls as well as their parameters from PHP.
