---
title: CodeIgniter Plugin
menu: CodeIgniter Plugin
template: jaxon
cache_enable: false
description: This example shows the usage of the Jaxon plugin for the CodeIgniter framework.
---

The plugin implements all the setup of the Jaxon library, and let the user focus on writing Jaxon classes for his application.

The behaviour of the Jaxon library can be customized from a CodeIgniter-specific config file.

By default, the Jaxon plugin for CodeIgniter registers all classes in the application/jaxon/ dir, with namespace \Jaxon\App.

<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm-12">
        <h5>How it works</h5>
<p>In this example we have two files Bts.php and Pgw.php in the app/Jaxon/Controllers/Test/ directory.</p>
<pre><code class="language-php">
namespace Jaxon\App\Test;

class Bts extends \Jaxon\Framework\Controller
{
    public function sayHello($isCaps)
    {
        if ($isCaps)
            $text = 'HELLO WORLD!';
        else
            $text = 'Hello World!';
    
        $this->response->assign('div2', 'innerHTML', $text);
        $this->response->toastr->success("div2 text is now $text, after calling " . $this->call('sayHello', $isCaps));
    
        return $this->response;
    }

    public function setColor($sColor)
    {
        $this->response->assign('div2', 'style.color', $sColor);
        $this->response->toastr->success("div2 color is now $sColor");
    
        return $this->response;
    }

    public function showDialog()
    {
        $buttons = array(array('title' => 'Close', 'class' => 'btn', 'click' => 'close'));
        $width = 300;
        $this->response->bootstrap->modal("Modal Dialog", "This modal dialog is powered by Twitter Bootstrap!!", $buttons, $width);
    
        return $this->response;
    }
}
</code></pre>

<pre><code class="language-php">
namespace Jaxon\App\Test;

class Pgw extends \Jaxon\Framework\Controller
{
    public function sayHello($isCaps)
    {
        if ($isCaps)
            $text = 'HELLO WORLD!';
        else
            $text = 'Hello World!';
    
        $this->response->assign('div1', 'innerHTML', $text);
        $this->response->toastr->success("div1 text is now $text, after calling " . $this->call('sayHello', $isCaps));
    
        return $this->response;
    }

    public function setColor($sColor)
    {
        $this->response->assign('div1', 'style.color', $sColor);
        $this->response->toastr->success("div1 color is now $sColor");
    
        return $this->response;
    }

    public function showDialog()
    {
        $buttons = array(array('title' => 'Close', 'class' => 'btn', 'click' => 'close'));
        $options = array('maxWidth' => 400);
        $this->response->pgw->modal("Modal Dialog", "This modal dialog is powered by PgwModal!!", $buttons, $options);
    
        return $this->response;
    }
}
</code></pre>

<h5><b>Installation</b></h5>
<p>
Install the CodeIgniter framework, version 3.0 or above.
</p>
<p>
Add the jaxon-core, jaxon-laravel and any other plugin package in the composer.json file, and run composer update.
</p>
<p>
Copy the content of the "app" dir in the jaxon-laravel package in the "application" dir of the CodeIgniter install.<br/>
This directory contains the Jaxon library for CodeIgniter, the config file and a controller to process Jaxon request.
</p>
<p>
Make the application controller inherit from <em>Jaxon_Controller</em>.<br/>
Call <em>$this->jaxon->register()</em> to register all the Jaxon classes. Then, call <em>$this->jaxon->css()</em>,
<em>$this->jaxon->js()</em> and <em>$this->jaxon->script()</em> to get the code generated by Jaxon.
</p>

<h5><b>The Jaxon controllers</b></h5>
<p>
This is the main Jaxon controller.
</p>
<pre><code class="language-php">
class Jaxon_Controller extends CI_Controller
{
    public $jaxon = null;

    public function __construct()
    {
        parent::__construct();
        // Setup the Jaxon library
        $this->load->library('jaxon');
        $this->jaxon->setup();
    }
}
</code></pre>
<p>
This controller is located in the <em>application/jaxon</em> subdir, and processes Jaxon requests.
</p>
<pre><code class="language-php">
class Process extends Jaxon_Controller
{
    public function __construct()
    {
        parent::__construct();
    }

    public function index()
    {
        // Process the Jaxon request
        if($this->jaxon->canProcessRequest())
        {
            $this->jaxon->processRequest();
        }
    }
}
</code></pre>

<h5><b>The application controller</b></h5>
<p>
This controller prints the application page with Jaxon code included.
</p>
<pre><code class="language-php">
class Demo extends Jaxon_Controller
{
    public function __construct()
    {
        parent::__construct();
    }

    public function index()
    {
        // Register the Jaxon classes
        $this->jaxon->register();
        // Print the page
        $this->load->library('parser');
        $this->parser->parse('index', array(
            'JaxonCss' => $this->jaxon->css(),
            'JaxonJs' => $this->jaxon->js(),
            'JaxonScript' => $this->jaxon->script()
        ));
    }
}
</code></pre>

<h5><b>Configuration</b></h5>
<p>The config file is located at <em>application/config/jaxon.php</em></p>
<p>
The config options are separated into two entries. The <em>lib</em> entry provides the options for
the Jaxon library, while the <em>app</em> entry provides the options for the CodeIgniter application.
</p>
<pre><code class="language-php">
$config['app'] = array(
    // 'dir' => '',
    // 'namespace' => '',
    // 'excluded' => array(),
);
$config['lib'] = array(
    'core' => array(
        'language' => 'en',
        'encoding' => 'UTF-8',
        'request' => array(
            'uri' => 'jaxon/process',
        ),
        'prefix' => array(
            'class' => '',
        ),
        'debug' => array(
            'on' => false,
            'verbose' => false,
        ),
        'error' => array(
            'handle' => false,
        ),
    ),
    'js' => array(
        'lib' => array(
            // 'uri' => '',
        ),
        'app' => array(
            // 'uri' => '',
            // 'dir' => '',
            'export' => false,
            'minify' => false,
            'options' => '',
        ),
    ),
);
</code></pre>
    </div>
</div>
