---
title: Evolved features
menu: Evolved features
template: jaxon
---

#### Namespaces

All classes of the [jaxon-core](https://github.com/jaxon-php/jaxon-core) package are now in the `Jaxon` namespace. The main class is a singleton, and the unique instance is returned by the `jaxon()` function. The URI that was passed to the class constructor in the previous version must now be defined with the `core.request.uri` configuration. So this is how to start a Jaxon application.
```php
$jaxon = jaxon();
$jaxon->setOption('core.request.uri', $uri);
```

#### Constants

The constants have been renamed and are now all set in the main `Jaxon` class. The new name of the constant is obtained by replacing the prefix `XAJAX_` by class name `Jaxon::`, as in the following example.
```php
$jaxon->register(Jaxon::CALLABLE_OBJECT, $myObject); // In current version
$jaxon->register(XAJAX_CALLABLE_OBJECT, $myObject); // In previous version
```
As exceptions to this rule, the constants `XAJAX_FUNCTION` becomes `Jaxon::USER_FUNCTION` and `XAJAX_EVENT` becomes `Jaxon::BROWSER_EVENT`.
The constant `XAJAX_DEFAULT_CHAR_ENCODING` no longer exists; the configuration option `core.encoding` must be used instead.

#### Javascript code generation

The function `$jaxon->getJavascript()` which returns the javascript code generated by the library has been separated into three distinct functions:

* The function `$jaxon->getCss()` returns the code which includes external CSS files.
* The function `$jaxon->getJs()` returns the code which includes external javascript files.
* The function `$jaxon->getScript()` returns the javascript code generated for exported classes and functions.

This separation exists because these codes can be inserted into different parts of the HTML page.
However, by calling `$jaxon->getScript(true, true)`, we obtain the cumulative output of these three functions.

#### Configuration options

The configuration functions and options of the Jaxon library have been renamed.  
A call to `$jaxon->setOption($name, $value)` is now needed to update an option, while a call to `$jaxon->getOption($name)` returns the value of an option. These two functions take the new option names as parameter.

The `$jaxon->configure($name, $value)` and `$jaxon->getConfiguration($name)` functions can still be used with the old names of options, but they are deprecated in version 1 and removed from version 2.
